---
title: "Linux"
layout: post
date: 2019-08-02 18:28
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
category: blog
author: yunamao
description: 操作流程
---
### 1. common command and operators：
<strong>command:</strong> man, ls, ls -l, ls -a, ls -la, cd, cd ../,pwd,touch,mkdir,rm,rm -rf, cat(list file contents), less(list file contents-one screen at a time), tail(liss the end of a file), tail -n(list the last n lines of a file),cp,mv,echo(echo values to the screen, echo $path), grep(text search utility),ps(list currently running processes) <br>
<strong>operator:</strong> >(redirection output to a file),<(redirect a file to a command),>>(redirect output and append to a file),1>filename(redirect stdout to a file, stdout is where program writes its output), 2>filename(redirect stderr to a file, stderr is where program writes errors), 2>&1(redirects stderr to stdout), |(combine simple command, ls -l | grep test means list all filenames that contain 'test')
### 2. export, set和setenv区别：

 export, set and setenv commands are used in UNIX for setting value of a variable or an environment variable.<br>

1. export command is used to for bash shell to export a variable or function to the environment of all the child processes running in the current shell.

2. set and setenv are the c-shell/tc-shell alternatives for setting a local <br>
 variable and environment variable respectively. The set command is used for setting<br>  local variable, setenv is uesd for setting an environment variable.<br> 
<strong>Example:</strong>
 
#set  FILE=”output.txt”<br> 
#echo $FILE<br> 
output.txt<br> 
#tcsh<br> 
#echo $FILE<br> 

#setenv  FILE ”output.txt”<br> 
#echo $FILE<br> 
output.txt<br> 
#tcsh<br> 
#echo $FILE<br> 
output.txt<br> 
### 3. change bash and csh shell in linux：
echo $0：check current shell
input bash will transfer csh to bash, vice versa.
### 4. linux redirection output
when i ncdump -h a large file who have many variables, if i ncdump -h it in the logging window, i just see a part of variables. To solve this problem, i can redirect the output to a new file. <br>
such as (1)ncdump -h *.nc >& test.txt (2) vi test.txt <br>

>name means redirect output to file name.<br>
>&number means redirect output to file descriptor number.<br>

So the & is needed to tell the shell you mean a file descriptor, not a file name.<br>

A file descriptor is a number that refers to an already open file. The standard ones are 0 for standard input, 1 for standard output or 2 for standard error. You can also use any other number, which will create a new file descriptor, just like when you create a new variable with var=value.<br>

Example:
In case of >
eg. cat abc.txt > pqr.txt
The contents of pqr.txt will be replaced with that of abc.txt

In case of >>
eg. cat abc.txt >> pqr.txt
The contents of abc.txt will be appended with that pqr.txt at the end.

### 5. Set environment variables
CARVEATS: Usually, you can’t modify content in the .cshrc file. If you want to change some environment variables, you can just set it in the logging node, and if you log out, this set will lose effect. For example, if you want set “setenv LD_LIBRARY_PATH /projects/ops/apps/rh6/matlab/2017a/sys/opengl/lib/glnxa64” , you just input the command in the logging node and don’t change it in the .cshrc files.
### 6. To extract a file from a big *.tar.gz file
1.zcat 3hourly.tar.gz | tar xvf -|more  or  tar -tf 3hourly.tar.gz %%%%to check the internal files <br>
2.tar zxf 3hourly.tar.gz 3hourly/dlwrf_3hourly_1979-1979.nc %%%%%to tar 1979 file<br>
### 7. [view text file](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/4/html/Step_by_Step_Guide/s1-viewingtext-terminal.html)
1. head/tail -10 %%%the first/last 10 lines
2.The main difference between more and less is that less allows backward and single-line movement using the same navigation as man pages: press the [Space] bar to go down one page, the [B] to go back one page, the directional (or "arrow") keys to move one line at a time, and [Q] to quit. <br>
### 8.[delete variables in nc files and keep the original order](http://nco.sourceforge.net/nco.html#alphabetize) <br>
ncks -a -x -v var1,var2.. in.nc out.nc <br>
### 9.just output nc variable name <br>
ncdump -h *.nc > e | cat e | grep double > var <br>
### Problems
(1)when try to use ncdump command, i should load intel compiler and netcdf model. If i just input "module load intel netcdf", i will come into a problem "ncdump: error while loading shared libraries: libimf.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
", which is because the unmatch of intel and netcdf version. For example, in Constance cluster, i can just input command "module load pgi netcdf", while in eastwind cluster, i should input "module load intel/12.1.3.293
 netcdf/4.2.0/intel/12.1.3.293 ".
